# FishSampling

An open web-based application to guide the determination of sampling approaches on salmon farms to accurately estimate sea louse abundance

ABSTRACT:
Sea lice infestation is a major threat both to salmon aquaculture, where the economic impact is devastating, and to wild salmonid conservation where increased parasitic burden may affect population viability. To manage these risks, active surveillance is routinely conducted on salmon farms to estimate the abundance of sea lice. However, the design of efficient sampling schemes for surveillance is challenging, as sampling strategies must consider infestation levels, farm structure, and management protocols, as well as the practical logistics of obtaining samples in remote and/or extreme locations. Simulation-based approaches can be a useful method to estimate appropriate sample sizes when a complex study design does not allow for the use of pre-established formulae. Here, we present an open web-based application, FishSampling, that has been designed for use in determining appropriate sample sizes under specific circumstances with a particular purpose. It can be used for three different sampling objectives, to estimate: i) the probability that an estimated abundance will fall within a given range, ii) the probability that the abundance will be incorrectly estimated relative to some lice limit, and, iii) the probability of correctly detecting a different between two abundance levels. The model that underpins this application considers sea lice abundance, the number of pens on a farm and the likely clustering effects among these pens, as well as the desired level of confidence. This approach, and the tool presented here, can be used across the salmon aquaculture sector to optimize sampling strategies and balance surveillance costs against health outcomes. The web-based application is freely available at https://jaewoonjeong.shinyapps.io/FishSampling/

The necessary packages are shiny, shinyalert, kableExtra, shinyscreenshot, reshape, ggplot2, ggridges, ICC, and tibble.

Please send any comments, questions or suggestions to Jaewoon Jeong (jwjeong79@gmail.com) or Crawford Revie (crawfordrevie@gmail.com). 
